README.md, before:

# FPGA VGA text display

![Photo of FPGA displaying a cat picture rendered with text characters](img/ingo_test.jpg)

This is a companion project to the [HW\_VGA](https://github.com/daveho/HW_VGA) project.
Its goal is to implement an 80x30 text display using 640x480 VGA, using more or less
the same approach as the HW\_VGA project, but using a
[Lattice UP5K FPGA](https://www.latticesemi.com/en/Products/FPGAandCPLD/iCE40UltraPlus)
on an [Upduino 3.1](https://tinyvision.ai/products/upduino-v3-1) (or 3.0) board
rather than discrete logic, GALs, and dual port static RAM.

As of early August 2024, the design generates a valid 640x480 VGA signal,
implements video RAM and font ROM using block RAM, and correctly displays
a test image. Test benches for the sync logic and character/attribute fetch
logic are implemented. All that remains is to implement a host interface so
the host system can write data to the video memory.

The [Schematic](Schematic) directory has a KiCad schematic, and the
[Logic](Logic) directory has the Verilog code for the FPGA. I use
[APIO](https://github.com/FPGAwars/apio) as the front end for the FPGA tools (see my
[blog post about using the Upduino 3 on Linux](https://daveho.github.io/2021/02/07/upduino3-getting-started-on-linux.html)
for details on setting things up.)

Acknowledgment: a viewer of one of my youtube videos recommended
[John Winans's youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCik0xMsb7kSpPUvT2JoJQ1w)
as a good starting point for learning about FPGA development.
His [introduction to simulation](https://youtu.be/xZhl64vHJ-E)
and [his Verilog examples repo](https://github.com/johnwinans/Verilog-Examples) were
incredibly helpful. By applying the techniques covered in the simulation video, I
basically went from having no idea how to simulate designs to being able to write
some halfway-reasonable testbenches in a day or two. Thank you, John!

Stay tuned!

Commit message:

update on VRAM read port issues

README.md, after:

# FPGA VGA text display

![Photo of FPGA displaying a cat picture rendered with text characters](img/ingo_test.jpg)

This is a companion project to the [HW\_VGA](https://github.com/daveho/HW_VGA) project.
Its goal is to implement an 80x30 text display using 640x480 VGA, using more or less
the same approach as the HW\_VGA project, but using a
[Lattice UP5K FPGA](https://www.latticesemi.com/en/Products/FPGAandCPLD/iCE40UltraPlus)
on an [Upduino 3.1](https://tinyvision.ai/products/upduino-v3-1) (or 3.0) board
rather than discrete logic, GALs, and dual port static RAM.

As of early August 2024, the design generates a valid 640x480 VGA signal,
implements video RAM and font ROM using block RAM, and correctly displays
a test image. Test benches for the sync logic and character/attribute fetch
logic are implemented. All that remains is to implement a host interface so
the host system can write data to the video memory.

**Update 8-Aug-2024**: the block RAM in the ICE40 UP5K FPGA used in the
Upduino 3.0/3.1 does is not true dual port, which will make the host interface
implementation a bit more complicated than I originally envisioned,
since the pixel generator and the host interface will need to share
the single hardware read port to the video memory. So, it may be a while
before I get this working.

The [Schematic](Schematic) directory has a KiCad schematic, and the
[Logic](Logic) directory has the Verilog code for the FPGA. I use
[APIO](https://github.com/FPGAwars/apio) as the front end for the FPGA tools (see my
[blog post about using the Upduino 3 on Linux](https://daveho.github.io/2021/02/07/upduino3-getting-started-on-linux.html)
for details on setting things up.)

Acknowledgment: a viewer of one of my youtube videos recommended
[John Winans's youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCik0xMsb7kSpPUvT2JoJQ1w)
as a good starting point for learning about FPGA development.
His [introduction to simulation](https://youtu.be/xZhl64vHJ-E)
and [his Verilog examples repo](https://github.com/johnwinans/Verilog-Examples) were
incredibly helpful. By applying the techniques covered in the simulation video, I
basically went from having no idea how to simulate designs to being able to write
some halfway-reasonable testbenches in a day or two. Thank you, John!

Stay tuned!
